"Earth's Moon is the only place beyond Earth where humans have set foot. The brightest and largest object in our night sky, the Moon makes Earth a more livable planet by moderating our home planet's wobble on its axis, leading to a relatively stable climate. It also causes tides, creating a rhythm that has guided humans for thousands of years. The Moon was likely formed after a Mars-sized body collided with Earth. Earth's Moon is the fifth largest of the 200+ moons orbiting planets in our solar system. Earth's only natural satellite is simply called 'the Moon' because people didn't know other moons existed until Galileo Galilei discovered four moons orbiting Jupiter in 1610. NASA currently has three robotic spacecraft exploring the Moon – Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter and the twin ARTEMIS spacecraft (not to be confused with NASA's new Artemis program to send astronauts back to the Moon)."\n
"Phobos, gouged and nearly shattered by a giant impact crater and beaten by thousands of meteorite impacts, is on a collision course with Mars. Phobos is the larger of Mars' two moons and is 17 x 14 x 11 miles (27 by 22 by 18 kilometers) in diameter. It orbits Mars three times a day, and is so close to the planet's surface that in some locations on Mars it cannot always be seen. Phobos is nearing Mars at a rate of six feet (1.8 meters) every hundred years; at that rate, it will either crash into Mars in 50 million years or break up into a ring. Its most prominent feature is the 6-mile (9.7 kilometer) crater Stickney, its impact causing streak patterns across the moon's surface. Stickney was seen by Mars Global Surveyor to be filled with fine dust, with evidence of boulders sliding down its sloped surface."\n
"Deimos is the smaller of Mars' two moons. Being only 9 by 7 by 6.8 miles in size (15 by 12 by 11 kilometers), Deimos whirls around Mars every 30 hours. Like Phobos, Deimos is a small and lumpy, heavily cratered object. Its craters are generally smaller than 1.6 miles (2.5 kilometers) in diameter, however, and it lacks the grooves and ridges seen on Phobos. Typically when a meteorite hits a surface, surface material is thrown up and out of the resulting crater. The material usually falls back to the surface surrounding the crater. However, these ejecta deposits are not seen on Deimos, perhaps because the moon's gravity is so low that the ejecta escaped to space. Material does appear to have moved down slopes. Deimos also has a thick regolith, perhaps as deep as 328 feet (100 meters), formed as meteorites pulverized the surface."\n
"Jupiter's moon Io is the most volcanically active world in the Solar System, with hundreds of volcanoes, some erupting lava fountains dozens of miles (or kilometers) high. Io is caught in a tug-of-war between Jupiter's massive gravity and the smaller but precisely timed pulls from two neighboring moons that orbit farther from Jupiter—Europa and Ganymede."\n
"Europa may be the most promising place in our solar system to find present-day environments suitable for some form of life beyond Earth. Scientists are almost certain that hidden beneath the icy surface of Europa is a salty-water ocean thought to contain twice as much water as Earth’s oceans combined. And like Earth, Europa is thought to also contain a rocky mantle and iron core. There is very strong evidence suggesting Europa's ocean is in contact with rock. This is important because life as we know it requires three key basic 'ingredients': liquid water, an energy source, and organic compounds to use as the building blocks for biological processes. Europa could have all three of these ingredients, and its ocean may have existed for the whole age of the solar system, long enough for life to begin and evolve there."\n
"Jupiter’s icy moon Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system, even bigger than the planet Mercury, and the dwarf planet Pluto. There’s strong evidence that Ganymede has an underground saltwater ocean that may hold more water than all the water on Earth's surface. It might even have ice and oceans stacked up in several layers like a club sandwich. Ganymede is the only moon known to have its own magnetic field – something typically found on planets like Earth. The magnetic field causes auroras, or bright ribbons of glowing gas, that circle the moon’s poles. There is evidence Ganymede has a tenuous oxygen atmosphere. Images taken by NASA’s Juno spacecraft on June 7, 2021, provided a fresh look at features on Ganymede’s surface including craters, clearly distinct dark, and bright terrain, and long structural features possibly linked to tectonic faults. Deep inside Ganymede, there’s a metallic iron core that generates the moon's magnetic field. A shell of rock surrounds the core, and another icy shell surrounds the rock. Several NASA probes have explored Jupiter and its moons, including Ganymede. The Juno spacecraft was most recent, taking detailed photographs of Ganymede in June 2021."\n
"Callisto is Jupiter’s second largest moon and the third largest moon in our solar system. Its surface is the most heavily cratered of any object in our solar system. Images of Callisto captured by passing spacecraft show bright white spots standing out against darker regions. Scientists think the bright areas are mostly ice and the darker patches are areas where the ice has eroded. Once thought to be a dead, inactive rocky body, data gathered by the Galileo spacecraft in the 1990s indicate Callisto may have a salty ocean beneath its icy surface. More recent research reveals that this ocean may be located deeper beneath the surface than previously thought, or may not exist at all. If an ocean is present, it’s possible the ocean is interacting with rock on Callisto, creating a potential habitat for life."\n
"Less than 123 miles (198 kilometers) in mean radius, crater-covered Mimas is the smallest and innermost of Saturn's major moons. It is not quite big enough to hold a round shape, so it is somewhat ovoid with dimensions of 129 x 122 x 119 miles (207 x 197 x 191 kilometers, respectively). Its low density suggests that it consists almost entirely of water ice, which is the only substance ever detected on Mimas. At a mean distance just over 115,000 miles (186,000 kilometers) from the massive planet, Mimas takes only 22 hours and 36 minutes to complete an orbit. Mimas is tidally locked: it keeps the same face toward Saturn as it flies around the planet, just as our Moon does with Earth. Most of the Mimas surface is saturated with impact craters ranging in size up to greater than 25 miles (40 kilometers) in diameter. However, the craters in the South Pole region of Mimas are generally 12.4 miles (20 kilometers) in diameter or less. This suggests that some melting or other resurfacing processes occurred there later than on the rest of the moon. (Interestingly, the South Pole area of Enceladus appears to be the source of that moon's geysers.)"\n
"Few worlds in our solar system are as compelling as Saturn’s icy ocean moon Enceladus. A handful of worlds are thought to have liquid water oceans beneath their frozen shell, but Enceladus sprays its ocean out into space where a spacecraft can sample it. From these samples, scientists have determined that Enceladus has most of the chemical ingredients needed for life, and likely has hydrothermal vents spewing out hot, mineral - rich water into its ocean. About as wide as Arizona, Enceladus also has the whitest, most reflective surface in the solar system.The moon creates a ring of its own as it orbits Saturn—its spray of icy particles spreads out into the space around its orbit, circling the planet to form Saturn’s E ring."\n
"Tethys is Saturn's fifth largest moon. Its irregular shape is 331 miles (533 kilometers) in mean radius, with dimensions 669 x 657 x 654 miles (1076.8 x 1057.4 x 1052.6 kilometers). This cold, airless and heavily scarred body is very similar to sister moons Dione and Rhea except that Tethys is not as heavily cratered as the other two. This may be because its proximity to Saturn causes more tidal warming, and that warming kept Tethys partially molten longer, erasing or dulling more of the early terrain. Tethys' density is 0.97 times that of liquid water, which suggests that Tethys is composed almost entirely of water ice plus a small amount of rock. Tethys has a high reflectivity(or visual albedo) of 1.229 in the visual range, again suggesting a composition largely of water ice, which would behave like rock in the Tethyan average temperature of - 305 degrees Fahrenheit(-187 degrees Celsius).Many of the crater floors on Tethys are bright, which also suggests an abundance of water ice.Also contributing to the high reflectivity is that Tethys is bombarded by Saturn E - ring water - ice particles generated by geysers on Enceladus. Tethys appeared as a tiny dot to astronomers until the Voyager(1 and 2) encounters in 1980 and 1981.The Voyager images showed a major impact crater and a great chasm.The Cassini spacecraft has added details including a great variety of colors at small scales suggesting a variety of materials not seen elsewhere."\n
"Dione is a small moon of 349 miles(562 km) in mean radius orbiting Saturn every 2.7 days at a distance of 234, 500 miles(377, 400 km), which is roughly the same distance that the moon orbits around the Earth. Dione's density is 1.48 times that of liquid water, suggesting that about a third of Dione is made up of a dense core (probably silicate rock) with the remainder of its material being ice. At Dione's average temperature of - 304 degrees Fahrenheit(-186 degrees Celsius or 87 kelvins), ice is very hard and behaves like rock. Very fine ice powder(equivalent to smoke) from Saturn's E-ring constantly bombards Dione. The dust in the E-ring ultimately comes from Enceladus, which has prominent geyser activity."\n
"Rhea is the second largest moon of Saturn, but with a mean radius of 475 miles(764 kilometers) it is less than a third the radius of Saturn's largest moon, Titan. Rhea is a small, cold, airless body that is very similar to sister moons Dione and Tethys. As with the other two moons, Rhea is tidally locked in phase with its parent — one side always faces toward Saturn — as it completes its 4.5-Earth-day orbit around the planet. Rhea's surface temperatures are also similar to Dione and Tethys, being roughly as warm as - 281 degrees Fahrenheit(-174 degrees Celsius) in sunlit areas and ranging down to - 364 degrees Fahrenheit(-220 degrees Celsius) in shaded areas.Also like Dione and Tethys, Rhea has a high reflectivity(or geometric albedo) suggesting a surface composition largely of water ice, which behaves like rock in Rhea's temperature range. Rhea's density of 1.233 times that of liquid water suggests that Rhea is three quarters ice and one quarter rock.Cassini spacecraft measurements from a close encounter showed a moment of inertia about its axis(a measure of how difficult it is to change its rotation) of a higher value than what would be expected if Rhea has a rocky core. Thus, it is thought that Rhea is composed of a homogenous mixture of ice and rock — a frozen dirty snowball. Rhea, at a distance of 327,500 miles(527, 000 kilometers), is farther away from Saturn than Dione and Tethys, and because of this Rhea does not receive ample tidal variation from Saturn to cause internal heating.This has an important effect.Both Dione and Tethys have more areas of smooth plains than Rhea.Such plains are probably areas where liquid water reached the surface and ponded in depressions such as craters, forming flat surfaces before refreezing and thus erasing existing craters. The lesser internal warmth at Rhea could have resulted in fewer erasures or there could have been more bombardment on Rhea.Whatever the reason, Rhea is more heavily cratered than Dione and Tethys."\n
"Saturn’s largest moon Titan is an extraordinary and exceptional world.Among our solar system’s more than 150 known moons, Titan is the only one with a substantial atmosphere.And of all the places in the solar system, Titan is the only place besides Earth known to have liquids in the form of rivers, lakes and seas on its surface. Titan is larger than the planet Mercury and is the second largest moon in our solar system.Jupiter's moon Ganymede is just a little bit larger (by about 2 percent). Titan’s atmosphere is made mostly of nitrogen, like Earth’s, but with a surface pressure 50 percent higher than Earth’s. Titan has clouds, rain, rivers, lakes and seas of liquid hydrocarbons like methane and ethane. The largest seas are hundreds of feet deep and hundreds of miles wide. Beneath Titan’s thick crust of water ice is more liquid—an ocean primarily of water rather than methane. Titan’s subsurface water could be a place to harbor life as we know it, while its surface lakes and seas of liquid hydrocarbons could conceivably harbor life that uses different chemistry than we’re used to—that is, life as we don’t yet know it. Titan could also be a lifeless world."\n
"Iapetus has been called the yin and yang of the Saturn moons because its leading hemisphere has a reflectivity(or albedo) as dark as coal(albedo 0.03-0.05 with a slight reddish tinge) and its trailing hemisphere is much brighter at 0.5-0.6. Saturn's third largest moon, Iapetus has a mean radius of 457 miles (736 kilometers) and a density only 1.2 times that of liquid water. It has been suggested that Iapetus (like Rhea) is three quarters ice and one quarter rock."\n
"Like Frankenstein's monster, Miranda looks like it was pieced together from parts that didn't quite merge properly.At about 500 km in diameter, it's only one-seventh as large as Earth's moon, a size that seems unlikely to support much tectonic activity. Yet Miranda sports one of the strangest and most varied landscapes among extraterrestrial bodies, including three large features known as 'coronae,' which are unique among known objects in our solar system.They are lightly cratered collections of ridges and valleys, separated from the more heavily cratered (and presumably older) terrain by sharp boundaries like mismatched patches on a moth-eaten coat.Miranda's giant fault canyons are as much as 12 times as deep as the Grand Canyon. Due to Miranda's low gravity and large cliffs, a rock dropped off the edge of the highest cliff would take a full 10 minutes to reach the foot of the cliff."\n
"All of Uranus' larger moons, including Ariel, are thought to consist mostly of roughly equal amounts of water ice and silicate rock. Carbon dioxide has also been detected on Ariel. Ariel's surface appears to be the youngest of all the moons of Uranus.It has few large craters and many small ones, indicating that fairly recent low-impact collisions wiped out the large craters that would have been left by much earlier, bigger strikes. Ariel is also thought to have had the most recent geologic activity of Uranus' larger moons. It is transected by grabens, which are fault-bounded valleys. Ariel has the brightest surface of the five largest Uranian moons, but none of them reflect more than about a third of the sunlight that strikes them. This suggests that their surfaces have been darkened by a carbonaceous material. Ariel's brightness increases dramatically when it is in opposition―that is, when the observer is directly between it and the Sun. This indicates that its surface is porous, casting reflectivity-decreasing shadows when illuminated at other angles."\n
"Umbriel is the darkest of Uranus' largest moons. It reflects only 16 percent of the light that strikes its surface, a feature similar to the highland areas of Earth's Moon. Other Uranian moons are much brighter. The process by which Umbriel's ancient cratered surface was darkened remains a mystery. Umbriel has a diameter of about 750 miles (1,200 kilometers). Images taken by Voyager 2 in 1986 revealed a curious bright ring about 90 miles (140 kilometers) in diameter on the moon's dark surface.It is unclear what created the distinctive ring, although it may be frost deposits associated with an impact crater."\n
"Titania is Uranus' largest moon. Images taken by Voyager 2 almost 200 years after Titania's discovery revealed signs that the moon was geologically active. A prominent system of fault valleys, some nearly 1,000 miles (1,609 kilometers) long, is visible near the terminator(shadow line). The troughs break the crust in two directions, an indication of some tectonic extension of Titania's crust. Deposits of highly reflective material, which may represent frost, can be seen along the Sun-facing valley walls. The moon is about 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometers) in diameter. The neutral gray color of Titania is typical of most of the significant Uranian moons."\n
"Oberon is the second largest moon of Uranus.Discovered in 1787, little was known about this moon until Voyager 2 passed it during its flyby of Uranus in January 1986. Oberon is heavily cratered―similar to Umbriel―especially when compared to three other moons of Uranus: Ariel, Titania and Miranda.Like all of Uranus' large moons, Oberon is composed of roughly half ice and half rock. Oberon has at least one large mountain that rises about 6 km off the surface."\n
"Triton is the largest of Neptune's 13 moons. It is unusual because it is the only large moon in our solar system that orbits in the opposite direction of its planet's rotation―a retrograde orbit. Scientists think Triton is a Kuiper Belt Object captured by Neptune's gravity millions of years ago. It shares many similarities with Pluto, the best known world of the Kuiper Belt. Like our own moon, Triton is locked in synchronous rotation with Neptune―one side faces the planet at all times. But because of its unusual orbital inclination both polar regions take turns facing the Sun."\n
"At half the size of Pluto, Charon is the largest of Pluto's five moons and the largest known satellite relative to its parent body. Pluto-Charon is our solar system's only known double planetary system.The same surfaces of Charon and Pluto always face each other, a phenomenon called mutual tidal locking. Charon orbits Pluto every 6.4 Earth days."